Pittsburgh | Location, History, Teams, Attractions, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica
Click here to search
Search Britannica
Click here to search
Login
Home
History & Society
Science & Tech
Biographies
Animals & Nature
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
ProCon
Money
Games & Quizzes
Videos
On This Day
One Good Fact
Dictionary
New Articles
History & Society
Lifestyles & Social Issues
Philosophy & Religion
Politics, Law & Government
World History
Science & Tech
Health & Medicine
Science
Technology
Biographies
Browse Biographies
Animals & Nature
Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates
Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates
Environment
Fossils & Geologic Time
Mammals
Plants
Geography & Travel
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
Entertainment & Pop Culture
Literature
Sports & Recreation
Visual Arts
Companions
Demystified
Image Galleries
Lists
Podcasts
Spotlight
Summaries
The Forum
Top Questions
#WTFact
Britannica Kids
Ask the Chatbot
Games & Quizzes
History & Society
Science & Tech
Biographies
Animals & Nature
Geography & Travel
Arts & Culture
ProCon
Money
Videos
You have reached Britannica's public website.
Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account.
Pittsburgh
Table of Contents
Introduction
History
The contemporary city
References & Edit History
Related Topics
Images
For Students
Pittsburgh summary
Read Next
Have Any U.S. Presidents Decided Not to Run For a Second Term?
What State Is Washington, D.C. In?
14 Questions About Government in the United States Answered
U.S. Death Toll During Major Events
26 Decade-Defining Events in U.S. History
Discover
Why Do Some Cicadas Appear Only Every 17 Years?
Holi: Festival of Colors
Flags That Look Alike
What’s the Difference Between Bison and Buffalo?
The Largest Islands in the World
Inventors and Inventions of the Industrial Revolution
10 Best Hockey Players of All Time
Contents
Geography & Travel
Cities & Towns
Cities & Towns P-S
downtown Pittsburgh
Downtown Pittsburgh; Fort Pitt Bridge (centre foreground) spans the Monongahela River.
(more)
Pittsburgh
Pennsylvania, United States
Ask the Chatbot a Question
More Actions
Print
print
Print
Please select which sections you would like to print:
Table Of Contents
Cite
verified
Cite
While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies.
			Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.
Select Citation Style
MLA
APA
Chicago Manual of Style
Copy Citation
Share
Share
Share to social media
Facebook
X
URL
https://www.britannica.com/place/Pittsburgh
Feedback
External Websites
Feedback
Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).
Feedback Type
Select a type (Required)
Factual Correction
Spelling/Grammar Correction
Link Correction
Additional Information
Other
Your Feedback
Submit Feedback
Thank you for your feedback
Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.
External Websites
CRW Flags - Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States
United States History - History of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
National Park Service - Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Britannica Websites
Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students.
Pittsburgh - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up)
Ask the Chatbot a Question
Written and fact-checked by
The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica
Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors.
The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica
Last Updated:
Mar 7, 2025
•
Article History
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Ask the Chatbot
News
•
Pittsburgh's Andy Warhol Museum voted one of the country's best art museums
•
Mar. 6, 2025, 5:34 AM ET (CBS)
...
(Show more)
A young great horned owl is rescued after falling down 100 feet from its Pittsburgh nest
•
Mar. 6, 2025, 1:37 AM ET (CBS)
Mayor Ed Gainey's pick for Pittsburgh police chief, Christopher Ragland, is withdrawing name, leaving force
•
Mar. 5, 2025, 12:05 AM ET (CBS)
Owner of Pittsburgh interior design business charged with scamming clients out of over $400K
•
Mar. 4, 2025, 12:45 AM ET (CBS)
Republican donors trying to unseat Pittsburgh’s progressive Black mayor
•
Mar. 3, 2025, 3:11 AM ET (The Guardian)
Show less
Pittsburgh
,
city
, seat (1788) of
Allegheny county
, southwestern
Pennsylvania
, U.S. The city is located at the
confluence
of the
Allegheny
and
Monongahela
rivers, which unite at the point of the “
Golden Triangle
” (the business district) to form the
Ohio River
. A city of hills, parks, and valleys, it is the centre of an urban industrial complex that includes the surrounding cities of
Aliquippa
(northwest),
New Kensington
(northeast),
McKeesport
(southeast), and
Washington
(southwest) and the borough of Wilkinsburg (east). Inc. borough, 1794; city, 1816. Area city, 58 square miles (150 square km). Pop. (2010) 305,704; Pittsburgh Metro Area, 2,356,285; (2020) 302,971; Pittsburgh Metro Area, 2,370,930.
History
Algonquian- and Iroquoian-speaking peoples were early inhabitants of the region. The conflict between the British and French over territorial claims in the area was settled in 1758 when General
John Forbes
and his British and colonial army expelled the French from Fort Duquesne (built 1754). Forbes named the site for the British statesman
William Pitt the Elder
. The British built
Fort Pitt (1761) to ensure their dominance at the source of the
Ohio
. Settlers began arriving after
Native American
forces led by Ottawa chief
Pontiac
were defeated in 1763; an agreement subsequently was made between Native American groups and the Penn family, and a boundary
dispute
was ended between Pennsylvania and Virginia. Pittsburgh was laid out (1764) by John Campbell in the area around the fort (now the Golden Triangle). Following the
American Revolution
, the town became an outfitting point for settlers traveling westward down the Ohio River.
1 of 2
William C. Wall:
View of the Great Fire of Pittsburgh
View of the Great Fire of Pittsburgh
, oil on canvas by William C. Wall, 1846; in the Carnegie Museum of Art, Pittsburgh, Pa. 51 × 81 cm.
(more)
2 of 2
Pittsburgh: steel mill, 1886
Bessemer converters in operation at a steel mill in Pittsburgh, 1886.
(more)
Pittsburgh’s strategic location and wealth of natural resources spurred its commercial and
industrial growth
in the 19th century. A
blast furnace
, erected by George Anschutz about 1792, was the forerunner of the iron and
steel
industry that for more than a century was the city’s economic mainstay; by 1850 Pittsburgh was known as the “Iron City.” The Pennsylvania Canal and the Portage Railroad, both completed in 1834, opened
vital
markets for trade and shipping. The city suffered a great loss in 1845 when some 24 blocks of businesses, homes, churches, and other buildings were destroyed by fire.
After the
American Civil War
, great numbers of European immigrants swelled Pittsburgh’s population, and industrial magnates such as
Andrew Carnegie
,
Henry Clay Frick
, and Thomas Mellon built their steel empires there. The city became the focus of historic friction between labour and management, and the
American Federation of Labor
was born there in 1881.
map of Pittsburgh, c. 1900
Map of Pittsburgh (c. 1900), from the 10th edition of
Encyclopædia Britannica
.
(more)
By 1900 the city’s population had reached 321,616. Growth continued nearly unabated through
World War II
, the war years bringing a particularly great boon for the economy. The population
crested
at more than 675,000 in 1950, after which it steadily declined; by the end of the century, it had returned almost to the 1900 level. Most citizens were still of European ancestry, but the growing African American proportion of the population exceeded one-fourth. During the period of economic and
population growth
, Pittsburgh had come to epitomize the grimy, polluted industrial city. After the war, however, the city undertook an extensive redevelopment program that emphasized smoke-pollution control, flood prevention, and sewage disposal. In 1957 it became the first American city to generate electricity by
nuclear power
.
The contemporary city
By the late 1970s and early ’80s, the steel industry had virtually disappeared—a result of foreign competition and decreased demand. Many of the surrounding mill towns were laid to waste by
unemployment
, becoming a symbol of the
notorious
Rust Belt
, the U.S. region where steelmaking and
manufacturing
once thrived before
succumbing
to widespread unemployment and
poverty
. Pittsburgh, however, successfully diversified its economy through more emphasis on light industries—though metalworking, chemicals, and plastics remained important—and on such high-technology industries as computer software, industrial automation (robotics), and biomedical and environmental technologies. Numerous industrial research laboratories were established in the area, and the
service sector
became increasingly important. Pittsburgh long has been one of the nation’s largest inland ports, and it remains a leading transportation centre.
Duquesne University
Student Union, Duquesne University, Pittsburgh.
(more)
Much of the Golden Triangle has been rebuilt and includes Point State Park (containing Fort Pitt Blockhouse and Fort Pitt Museum), the Gateway Center (site of several skyscrapers and a garden), and the David L. Lawrence Convention Center. The
University of Pittsburgh
was chartered in 1787. Other educational institutions include
Carnegie Mellon
(1900),
Duquesne
(1878),
Point Park (1960),
Chatham (1869), and
Carlow (1929) universities and two campuses of the
Community
College of Allegheny County (1966).
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh in 1901.
(more)
Central to the city’s cultural life is the
Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh (formerly Carnegie Institute), an umbrella organization consisting of a number of institutions. Its museums include those for the fine arts and natural history (both founded in 1895), the Carnegie Science Center (1991), which now also houses the Henry Buhl, Jr., Planetarium and Observatory (1939), and the
Andy Warhol
Museum
(1994), which exhibits the works of the Pittsburgh-born artist and filmmaker. Other institutions
affiliated
with the organization are the
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh
, which contains more than 3.3 million volumes, and the Carnegie Music Hall. The
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
performs at
Heinz
Hall, a restored movie theatre.
Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens (1893), which covers 15 acres (6 hectares), is noted for its extensive greenhouses. The
city’s zoo, in the northeastern Highland Park neighbourhood, includes an aquarium. Two new sports
venues
opened in 2001 on the north bank of the Allegheny opposite the Golden Triangle:
PNC Park
is home of the
Pirates
, the city’s professional
baseball
team, and
Acrisure Stadium
houses the
Steelers
, its professional
football
team. The
Penguins
, Pittsburgh’s professional
ice hockey
team, plays at
PPG Paints Arena. Popular summertime attractions include riverboat excursions on Pittsburgh’s waterways and Kennywood, an amusement park southeast of the city in West Mifflin.
The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica
This article was most recently revised and updated by
Amy Tikkanen
.