About -     CMU - Carnegie Mellon University
Carnegie Mellon University
—
—
—
Search
Search
Big ideas start here.
CMU
›              About
Carnegie Mellon University challenges the curious and passionate to imagine and deliver work that matters.
A private, global research university, Carnegie Mellon stands among the world's most renowned educational institutions, and sets its own course.
Start the journey here
.
Over the past 10 years, more than 400 startups linked to CMU have raised more than $7 billion in follow-on funding. Those investment numbers are especially high because of the sheer size of Pittsburgh’s growing autonomous vehicles cluster – including Uber, Aurora, Waymo and Motional – all of which are here because of their strong ties to CMU.
With cutting-edge brain science, path-breaking performances, innovative startups, driverless cars, big data, big ambitions, Nobel and Turing prizes, hands-on learning, and a whole lot of robots, CMU doesn't imagine the future, we create it.
About CMU
Visit
Admission
Leadership
Strategic Plan
Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging
Andrew Carnegie famously said, "My heart is in the work." At CMU, we think about work a little differently...
14,500+ Students
Representing 100+ Countries
1,300+ Faculty
Representing 50+ Countries
109,900+ Alumni
Representing 140+ Countries
View factsheet [pdf]
In Pittsburgh
Many seek Pittsburgh for being a
hot spot for entrepreneurship
and a
model for future cities
. Others come for the city's
burgeoning food scene
.
Visit us »
And Around the Globe
You’ll find CMU locations nationwide — and worldwide. Silicon Valley. Qatar. Africa. Washington, D.C. To name a few.
See global locations & programs »
#2 Undergraduate Computer Science
U.S. News & World Report, 2023
#2 Undergraduate Research & Creative Projects
U.S. News & World Report, 2023
#7 World's Best Drama Schools
The Hollywood Reporter, 2023
#1 Graduate Information Systems
U.S. News & World Report, 2023
#4 Most Innovative Schools
U.S. News & World Report, 2023
#15 U.S. Universities
Times Higher Education, 2023
#24 University in the World
Times Higher Education, 2023
More
awards
&
rankings
First smile in an email
The Smiley :-) was created by Carnegie Mellon research professor Scott Fahlman on September 19, 1982. This was the beginning of emoticons in email, and the precursor to emojis.
;-)   :-(   :-o
Fifteen minutes & counting
Carnegie Mellon alumnus Andy Warhol was an iconic figure in the pop art movement that explored the relationship of art to modern celebrity culture and advertising. His work included hand drawing, painting, printmaking, photography, silk screening, sculpture, film and music. A pioneer in computer-generated art, he is considered one of the most influential artists of the 20th century.
Changing the way the cookie crumbles
It's never too early for women to learn the art of negotiation, and that's why a Carnegie Mellon professor has partnered with the Girl Scouts. The first Girl Scout badge for negotiation, named "Win-Win: How to Get What You Want," started with Carnegie Mellon professor Linda Babcock. To earn the badge, girls learn why and how negotiation can be useful — and it goes beyond selling cookies. Babcock has also co-authored two books on the subject:
Women Don't Ask
and
Ask for it: How Women Can Use the Power of Negotiation to Get What They Really Want
.
Cruise controlled
In 1979, Carnegie Mellon established the nation's first Robotics Institute. Since then, professor and alumnus William "Red" Whittaker has been a robotics pioneer, founding the discipline of Field Robotics, developing unmanned vehicles to clean up the Three Mile Island nuclear accident site, and leading the Tartan Racing Team to victory in the $2 million Urban Challenge robotic autonomous vehicles race. Technologies like these can help make driving safer by preventing accidents.
Little brags of big ideas
Explore CMU's big ideas — a gallery of innovations and sparks of inspiration that have grown to shape the world.
See more brags »
Seven Schools & Colleges
College of Engineering
College of Fine Arts
Dietrich College
Humanities and Social Sciences
Heinz College
Information Systems & Public Policy Management
Mellon College of Science
School of Computer Science
Tepper School of Business
Carnegie Mellon University challenges the curious and passionate to deliver work that matters.
Calendar
Careers
COVID-19 Updates
Directory / Contact
Feedback
Global Locations
Health & Safety
News
Site Map
Title IX
Alumni
BUSINESS & RESEARCH PARTNERS
Faculty & Staff
Students
Carnegie Mellon University
5000 Forbes Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
412-268-2000
Legal Info
www.cmu.edu
©
2025
Carnegie Mellon University
CMU on Facebook
CMU on Twitter
CMU on LinkedIn
CMU YouTube Channel
CMU on Instagram
CMU on Flickr
CMU Social Media Directory
Academics
Interdisciplinary Programs
Libraries
Learning for a Lifetime
Admission
Undergraduate
Graduate
About
Leadership
Vision, Mission and Values
History
Traditions
Inclusive Excellence
Pittsburgh
Rankings
Awards
Visit
David & Susan Coulter Welcome Center
Maps & Getting Here
Research
Centers & Institutes
Student Experience
Athletics
Give
Alumni
Business & Research Partners
Faculty & Staff
Students